All right guys in this video we're gonna look at inline level elements and block level elements.
Now certain tags or H2 metal elements are blocked some are in line.
Now this is a page from W3 schools which is a great reference site.
And it shows us which elements are block and which are in line.
So all of these tags right here are block level so we have power graph form all the H tags the heading
tags these header section all this stuff.
These are h HTML5 semantic tags nav Main.
I'm going to talk about those in a little bit.
Those are very important but for now let's check.
Let's look at the ones that we know like paragraph ordered lists unordered list list item all of these
are block level and then for inline we have a tags which are links we have C button we have span we
didn't talk about spans yet select what else here have we looked at these these bold and italics we're
not going to be using those anymore emphasised strong text area.
These are inline.
Now the difference here is that a block level element will span 100 percent width of the page.
OK.
So it basically goes across the whole page and then the next thing that you put on the page is going
to be on the next line because it knocks it down to the next line in inline element does not span across
the page it only takes up that space.
Therefore the next thing you put is going to go to the right of it.
It's just going to go right after it.
So let me give you some examples.
OK.
So it's open let's create a file here I'll call it 0 8 underscore block underscore inline dot aged him
out and we'll go ahead and put our structure in here.
Let's say in line
in line versus block and inside the body here.
Let's go ahead and put a paragraph which is a block level element and I'll say Lorem let's do Lorem
30 tab or enter and we'll save that.
Let's go ahead and open this with live server.
OK.
So this is a block level element.
If I put another paragraph underneath it all right let's say Lorem 20 tab.
Notice how it gets pushed on to the next line paragraphs actually have styling by default see the space
here they actually have default margin which I'm going to we'll talk about when we get to the CSX but
since it's block level it goes across the whole page and pushes the next one onto the next line.
Now a link in a tag is an inline element.
So let's go ahead and let's put a link not within a paragraph but just a link itself.
And if we put out no sign that just means it goes to the current page Iran it doesn't go anywhere and
in here let's just say a link.
And if I save it this is an inline element which means if we add another link copy this down and I save
notice that it goes next to it it doesn't get pushed on to the next line because it doesn't it doesn't
span all the way across.
OK.
So that's the difference here.
Now I'm going to add a style attribute because I want to put a border around all of these just so you
can see kind of the outline of them.
And again I don't suggest using style tags you want to use CSX but we haven't gotten to that yet.
I'm just showing you this for an example and you'll learn all about borders and stuff later on but I'm
just going to say border Greens solid and we'll do the same with the next one.
So just copy this and let's save that and you can see that it goes all the way across.
Now let's at a red border to the link.
So I'm just going to change this to red
read and save and you can see that it doesn't go all the way across.
Now you might be saying well these paragraphs are you know they're long they reach all the way across
the page but this doesn't the end doesn't.
If it were in line the next one would start right here.
So even if I just had a one word paragraph and I save it goes all the way across.
OK so that's the difference.
And it's very important to understand that.
So another block level element is an unordered list as well as list items.
So when I put a s when I put a list item in here and another one it knocks it down to the next line
because it's it's a block level element and you can change the you can change it from inline to block
or vice versa using CSX and we're gonna get into that later.
But I just want you to understand the difference between inline and block and then those not span.
I want to do a strong the topography semantic tags like strong and
strong and emphasis.
Those are also obviously in line because you can see we can make this strong but it doesn't knock it
down to the next line.
So these these are inline and you also have something called inline block which I'll talk about when
we get to CSX because it doesn't really pertain to to just each team out.
OK.
So hopefully that makes sense guys I just wanted to clear that up before we move on in the next video
we're going to talk a little bit about divs with I.D. and classes.